# ArgoCD 

This repo helps to reproduce the problem reported in https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/issues/10707

In the steps below ArgoCD is deployed to a local kind cluster. You need the kind binary for this Get it here: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind/releases/

## Steps to reproduce

### Clone repo
Clone this repo and enter the local repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/vx-github/vx-argocd-cert-bug.git

cd vx-argocd-cert-bug
```

### 01 - Start kind cluster

Start the kind cluster by running the script:
```
./01_create-kind-cluster.sh
```

### 02 - Deploy ArgoCD
Deploy ArgoCD v2.4.17
```
./02_deploy-argocd.sh v2.4.17
```
***or***
Deploy ArgoCD v2.5.2
```
./02_deploy-argocd.sh v2.5.2
```

Wait for ArgoCD to get ready on: https://localhost:30000/

### 03 - Start view cert script
Now we want to check what cert is served by ArgoCD. Run this script in a **second** terminal:
```
./03_view_argocd_cert.sh
```
Every second some properties of the cert served by ArgoCD are printed. At first it will be a Selfsigned Cert by ArgoCD because the kubernetes secret `argocd-server-tls` does not exists yet.

### 04 - Start cert update script
In the first terminal start the below script:
```
./04_update-test-certs.sh
```
This script will create `argocd-server-tls` after 60 seconds. After another 60 seconds it will update `argocd-server-tls` with a new cert. It will do this 5 times.

## Validating the bug

Pay attention to the second terminal. When `04_generate-apply-test-certs.sh` is run the output should show the updated cert, but you don't have to wait long to see the ArgoCD selfsigned certificate again that was generated by ArgoCD being served.

If `04_generate-apply-test-certs.sh` generates a second cert (number 2), it will not take long to see old certs (generated selfsigned cert from ArgoCD and cert 'number 1'). And so on, after every update, older certs are still show up

This test is not a real for how ArgoCD is used ofcourse, but the same happends when cert-manager is used and periodically `argocd-server-tls` is updated. **Old (expired) certs popup and create unavailability because the same cert is used when argocd components communicate with each other and they don't accept expired certs.**

### Example output

In `./results` some example output can be found for ArgoCD v2.5.2, v2.4.17 and v2.4.2.

### Issue shown in v2.5.2
When a (new) cert was placed in the kubernetes secret `argocd-server-tls` (updated at [2022-11-09 00:42:45](./results/output-update-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log)) argocd-server will read the cert and uses it (view at [2022-11-09 00:42:48](./results/output-view-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log)). 

But not long after it will serve the older selfsigned cert again (view at [2022-11-09 00:43:00](./results/output-view-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log)). And somewhat later it serves the new 'number 1' again (view at [2022-11-09 00:43:01](./results/output-view-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log)). 

At [2022-11-09 00:43:46 (update)](./results/output-update-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log) the 'number 2' cert is generated and applied. Argocd-server doesn't start to serve the 'number 2' right away and at [2022-11-09 00:44:46](./results/output-update-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log) 'number 3' is created and served at [2022-11-09 00:45:06](./results/output-view-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log). At [2022-11-09 00:45:25](./results/output-view-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log)
cert 'number 2' pops up...

This instability keeps ongoing until argocd-server is restarted (new pod instance).

When the script `4_generate-apply-test-certs.sh` finishes, cert in `argocd-server-tls` is:
```
❯ k get secrets argocd-server-tls -o json | jq -r '.data."tls.crt"' | base64 -d | openssl x509  -noout -subject -dates -serial
subject=C = NL, O = Argo CD Cert Test number 5, CN = localhost
notBefore=Nov  8 23:32:34 2022 GMT
notAfter=Nov 18 23:32:34 2022 GMT
serial=1C629A48F40B9F4345A0D03D2E82874DEF8CDE7F
```
... but argocd-server stil serves older certs: selfsigned cert from ArgoCD and the 'number 2'cert (view from [2022-11-09 00:46:47](./results/output-view-cert_argocd-v2.5.2.log))

Another observation is that it takes much time for the new cert is used by argocd-server (unlike a cert update in v2.4.2 where this is almost instant).


### All fine in v2.4.2
Above instable cert serving by argocd-server was not seen in v2.4.2, as can be seen in the [view output](./results/output-view-cert_argocd-v2.4.2.log) and [update output](./results/output-update-cert_argocd-v2.4.2.log).
When ever a new cert is generated and applied (for example at [2022-11-09 00:16:39](./results/output-update-cert_argocd-v2.4.2.log)) it is served almost instant by argocd-server (at [2022-11-09 00:16:40](./results/output-view-cert_argocd-v2.4.2.log)) and older certs are never served anymore.

## CleanUp
Everytime a new test was started, the current kind cluster was deleted with:
```
kind delete cluster
```